1. Macbeth is a tragedy written by William Shakespeare, believed to have been written sometime between 1606 and 1607.
2. The play begins with the appearance of three witches who prophesy that Macbeth, a Scottish general, will become Thane of Cawdor and eventually King of Scotland.
3. They also prophesy that Banquo, Macbeth's friend, will beget a line of Scottish kings, although he will never be king himself.
4. Macbeth is intrigued by the possibility of becoming king and begins to consider the idea after he is indeed named Thane of Cawdor.
5. Lady Macbeth, Macbeth's wife, is determined to see her husband become king and persuades him to murder King Duncan while he is visiting their castle at Inverness.
6. Macbeth and Lady Macbeth plan to frame Duncan's chamberlains for the murder by getting them drunk and then killing them while they are unconscious.
7. Despite his doubts and supernatural portents, Macbeth murders Duncan in his sleep.
8. When Duncan's death is discovered the next morning, Macbeth kills the chamberlains and easily assumes the kingship as Duncan's sons Malcolm and Donalbain flee the country fearing for their lives.
9. However, Macbeth is haunted by Banquo's ghost and becomes increasingly paranoid.
10. He arranges for Banquo to be killed but Banquo's son Fleance escapes.
11. Lady Macbeth is also consumed by guilt and descends into madness.
12. The witches assure Macbeth that he will be safe until Birnam Wood comes to Dunsinane and that no one "of woman born" shall harm him.
13. Learning that Macduff is joining Malcolm's army to challenge his rule, Macbeth orders the slaughter of Macduff's wife and children.
14. As Malcolm's army advances on Dunsinane using branches from Birnam Wood as camouflage, Macbeth realizes that the prophecy is being fulfilled.
15. In the final battle, Macduff reveals that he was from his mother's womb untimely ripped, meaning he was not "of woman born".
16. He kills Macbeth and Malcolm is crowned as the new King of Scotland.
17. The play explores themes such as ambition, guilt, the nature of kingship, and the supernatural.
18. It is considered one of Shakespeare's darkest and most powerful works.
19. The play has been widely adapted for stage, film, opera, and other media.
20. It remains one of Shakespeare's most popular plays to this day.